Update set-up-your-scene.md (#31)
MicrosoftDocs/mesh-docs: mesh/develop/build-your-basic-environment/set-up-your-scene.md

ms.date: 10/10/2023
ms.service: mesh
ms.topic: How to
keywords: Microsoft Mesh, Unity, getting started, Unity, scene, teleportation, navmesh, travelpoint, travelgroup, player movement
---

# Set up your scene

The operations below are required for new or existing projects.

## Guidelines for Player Movement

> The scene should have Colliders for the player to walk and teleport on. In general, a low poly MeshCollider that tightly fits the visual geometry with some rounding on the corners will produce the best results. BoxColliders work great for trivial scenarios, but in many cases are not ideal for player movement. For example, the player can get stuck on the corners or defeat step height limits.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scene should have Colliders for the player to walk and teleport on. In general, a low poly MeshCollider that tightly fits the visual geometry with some rounding on the corners will produce the best results. Box Colliders work great for trivial scenarios, but can result in a number of problems such as causing the player to get stuck on the corners or defeat step height limits.  
```

**Mesh Player CharacterController movement limits:**
- Maximum walkable slope: <45 degrees
- Maximum step height: 0.3
- Player capsule radius: 0.3
- Player capsule height: 1.9

**Suggestions for best results:**

> - Rounded corners help smooth out player movement and avoid getting stuck.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rounded corners help smooth out player movement and prevent the player from getting stuck.  
```

> - To block player movement, use steep slopes or a height much larger than the max step height.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To block player movement, use steep slopes or a height much larger than the maximum step height.
```

> - Use a CapsuleCollider or similar rounded shape on objects or areas the player shouldn't walk on as these shapes are unwalkable and will cause them to slide off. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use a Capsule Collider or similar rounded shape on objects or areas the player shouldn't walk on. These shapes are unwalkable and will cause the player to slide off them. 
```

> - Aligning the collision surfaces with the visual surfaces that the player will walk on is important to avoid any issues with the player's position relative to the visual surface (prevent floating or clipping).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Align the collision surfaces with the visual surfaces that the player will walk on. This is important in order to avoid any issues with the player's position relative to the visual surface (prevent floating or clipping).  
```

## Supporting Teleportation

> In order for a scene to support teleportation, teleportable surfaces (for example, the floor or the ground) must have colliders on the NavMesh layer. In general, anything the player is allowed to walk on should likely be a NavMesh. Visual geometry is not teleportable and should not be on the NavMesh layer, only Colliders can be a NavMesh. Improper or inconsistent layering can cause undesireable effects when teleporting. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for a scene to support teleportation, teleportable surfaces (for example, the floor or the ground) must have colliders on the NavMesh layer. In general, anything the player is allowed to walk on should likely be a NavMesh. Visual geometry isn't teleportable and shouldn't be on the NavMesh layer; only Colliders can be a NavMesh. Improper or inconsistent layering can cause undesirable effects when teleporting. 
```

> In order for a scene to support teleportation, teleportable surfaces (for example, the floor or the ground) must have colliders on the NavMesh layer. In general, anything the player is allowed to walk on should likely be a NavMesh. Visual geometry is not teleportable and should not be on the NavMesh layer, only Colliders can be a NavMesh. Improper or inconsistent layering can cause undesireable effects when teleporting. 

Reviewer: "In general, anything the player is allowed to walk on should likely be a NavMesh."

Can we be more precise here? Example: " ... anything the player is allowed to walk on should be a NavMesh or <list possible non-NavMeshes and explain why they should be used instead>."

Author: updated with more precision

> **Teleportable surfaces must meet the following conditions:**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**A teleportable surface must meet the following conditions:**  
```

- It must have some type of Collider attached (Mesh Collider or Box Collider, for example).  

> - Its Layer must be set to NavMesh.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Its **Layer** must be set to NavMesh.  
```

> Be cautious of low ceilings or tunnels, as this could potentially affect player grounding and teleportation - there should be a small buffer of space above the player's head. For example, player physics or the teleport arc may intersect or interact with the collider above. The minimum height from ground to roof is roughly 3m (~2m player height + ~1m buffer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be cautious of low ceilings or tunnels; these could potentially affect player grounding and teleportation.  For example, player physics or the teleport arc may intersect or interact with the collider above them. There should be a small buffer of space above the player's head. The minimum height from ground to roof is roughly 3m (~2m player height + ~1m buffer).
```
